README.md, before:

# Confection

[Homepage](http://rubyworks.github.com/confection) |
[Source Code](http://github.com/rubyworks/confection) |
[Report Issue](http://github.com/rubyworks/confection/issues) |
[Mailing List](http://googlegroups.com/group/rubyworks-mailinglist) |
[IRC Channel](http://chat.us.freenode.net/rubyworks)

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/rubyworks/confection.png)](http://travis-ci.org/rubyworks/confection)


## Description

Confection is multi-tenant configuration system for Ruby projects. If was 
designed to facilitate Ruby-based configuration for multiple tools in a
single file. It is extremely simple, which makes it easy to understand
and flexible in use.


## Instruction

Create a file in you project called `Confile`. By default the file can have any
name tha matches the glob `{.,}confile{.rb,}` case insensitive. In this file
add configuration blocks by name. For example, let's demonstrate how we could
use this to configure Rake tasks.

    $ cat Confile
    config :rake do
      desc 'generate yard docs'
      task :yard do
        sh 'yard'
      end
    end

In our Rakefile:

    $ cat Rakefile
    require 'confection'
    confection(:rake).call

Now you might wonder why the heck you would do this. That's where the *multi-tenancy*
comes into play. Let's add another configuration, and this time for a tool that has
native support for Confection.

    $ cat Confile
    title = "myapp"

    config :rake do
      desc 'generate yard docs'
      task :yard do
        sh "yard doc --title #{title}"
      end
    end

    config :qedoc do
      self.title = "#{title} Demonstrandum"
    end

Now we have configuration for both the rake tool and the qed test tool in
a single file. Thus we gain the advantage of reducing the file count of our 
project while pulling our tool configurations together into one place.
Moreover, these configurations can potentially share settings as demonstrated
here via the `title` variable.

Confection also supports profiles, either via a `profile` block or via a
`:profile` option.

    profile :cov
      config :qed do
        require 'simplecov'
        ...
      end
    end

Using Confection in your libraries is very simple. As you can see from our
example Rakefile. The `#confection` method is used to get a handle on a named
configuration. With it you have two options, `#load` or `#call`. The first
evaluates the configuration block at the toplevel, while the later evaluates
the block in the context of the caller. For instance, QED uses this call to
import user configuration into its Settings instance.

    confection(:qed, profile_name).call


## Release Notes

Please see HISTORY.rdoc file.


## Copyrights

Copyright (c) 2011 Rubyworks

Confection is distributable in accordance with the *BSD-2-Clause* license.

See LICENSE.txt for details.

Commit message:

Update README about method calls. [doc]

README.md, after:

# Confection

[Homepage](http://rubyworks.github.com/confection) |
[Source Code](http://github.com/rubyworks/confection) |
[Report Issue](http://github.com/rubyworks/confection/issues) |
[Mailing List](http://googlegroups.com/group/rubyworks-mailinglist) |
[IRC Channel](http://chat.us.freenode.net/rubyworks)

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/rubyworks/confection.png)](http://travis-ci.org/rubyworks/confection)


## Description

Confection is multi-tenant configuration system for Ruby projects. If was 
designed to facilitate Ruby-based configuration for multiple tools in a
single file. It is extremely simple, which makes it easy to understand
and flexible in use.


## Instruction

Create a file in you project called `Confile`. By default the file can have any
name tha matches the glob `{.,}confile{.rb,}` case insensitive. In this file
add configuration blocks by name. For example, let's demonstrate how we could
use this to configure Rake tasks.

    $ cat Confile
    config :rake do
      desc 'generate yard docs'
      task :yard do
        sh 'yard'
      end
    end

In our Rakefile:

    $ cat Rakefile
    require 'confection'
    confection(:rake).call

Now you might wonder why the heck you would do this. That's where the *multi-tenancy*
comes into play. Let's add another configuration, and this time for a tool that has
native support for Confection.

    $ cat Confile
    title = "myapp"

    config :rake do
      desc 'generate yard docs'
      task :yard do
        sh "yard doc --title #{title}"
      end
    end

    config :qedoc do
      self.title = "#{title} Demonstrandum"
    end

Now we have configuration for both the rake tool and the qed test tool in
a single file. Thus we gain the advantage of reducing the file count of our 
project while pulling our tool configurations together into one place.
Moreover, these configurations can potentially share settings as demonstrated
here via the `title` variable.

Confection also supports profiles, either via a `profile` block or via a
`:profile` option.

    profile :cov
      config :qed do
        require 'simplecov'
        ...
      end
    end

Using Confection in your libraries is very simple. As you can see from our
example Rakefile. The `#confection` method is used to get a handle on a named
configuration. With it you have two options, `#call`, `#exec` or `#load`.
The first calls the block which is evaluated in the context in which it was
defined. This is recommended. The second will evaluate the block in the 
context of the caller and the last in the context of the toplevel.
For instance, QED uses `#exec` to import user configuration directly into
its Settings instance.

    confection(:qed, profile_name).exec


## Release Notes

Please see HISTORY.rdoc file.


## Copyrights

Copyright (c) 2011 Rubyworks

Confection is distributable in accordance with the *BSD-2-Clause* license.

See LICENSE.txt for details.
